# BMS-Molecular-Translation

In a technology-forward world, sometimes the best and easiest tools are still pen and paper. Organic chemists frequently draw out molecular work with the Skeletal formula, a structural notation used for centuries. Recent publications are also annotated with machine-readable chemical descriptions (InChI), but there are decades of scanned documents that can't be automatically searched for specific chemical depictions. Automated recognition of optical chemical structures, with the help of machine learning, could speed up research and development efforts.

Unfortunately, most public data sets are too small to support modern machine learning models. Existing tools produce 90% accuracy but only under optimal conditions. Historical sources often have some level of image corruption, which reduces performance to near zero. In these cases, time-consuming, manual work is required to reliably convert scanned chemical structure images into a machine-readable format.

Bristol-Myers Squibb is a global biopharmaceutical company working to transform patients' lives through science. Their mission is to discover, develop, and deliver innovative medicines that help patients prevail over serious diseases.

In this competition, you’ll interpret old chemical images. With access to a large set of synthetic image data generated by Bristol-Myers Squibb, you'll convert images back to the underlying chemical structure annotated as InChI text.

Tools to curate chemistry literature would be a significant benefit to researchers. If successful, you'll help chemists expand access to collective chemical research. In turn, this would speed up research and development efforts in many key fields by avoiding repetition of previously published chemistries and identifying novel trends via mining large data sets.

Team Leaderbord Position 

Private Leaderboard (56th out of 874 teams)
Link : https://www.kaggle.com/c/bms-molecular-translation/leaderboard
